**Tutorial Smart Study Buddy:

High Level Steps:**

Step 1: Load and split study material from a PDF.
Step 2: Generating questions.
Step 3: Generating answers.

We’ll walk through the following three seemingly straightforward steps:


**Step 0: Prerequisites**
Before we start creating our application, we need to install the necessary dependencies for this project.

Do this by running the following command in your terminal:

pip install -r requirements.txt

**Step 1: Load and split your study material**

To enable the large language model to generate questions, we need to give it access to the study material. Fortunately, LangChain comes to the rescue with its versatile document loaders, making data access a breeze.

LangChain supports an array of document loaders, allowing you to load data from various sources, including:

PDF
CSV
Excel
HTML
Markdown

And that’s just the beginning! You can even work with more sophisticated loaders, such as YouTube Transcripts, Discord, Email, Dropbox, Notion, GitHub, and many more.

For detailed information about all the different types of document loaders, check out the official documentation.

**Step 1.1: Load data with PyPDF Loader:**

We’ll start by loading the study material from a PDF using the PyPDF Loader. This handy loader leverages the PyPDF library to extract the content from the PDF and organize it into an array of documents. Each document contains the page content along with metadata, such as the page number.

**Step 1.2: Split text for question generation**
In step 2, you’ll be using a LangChain Summarization Chain in order for the model to generate questions.

We want the LLM to have as much contextual awareness and perform as few operations as possible.

**Step 1.3: Split text for question answering**

In Step 3 of our tutorial, we’ll use a Retrieval Question Answer Chain to answer the questions we generated.

To achieve cost efficiency, we’ll split the text into smaller chunks.

**Step 2: Generating Questions with help of LLMs**

**Step 2.2.1: Prompting**
A prompt is like an instruction or a guiding question provided to a Large Language Model (LLM) to direct its behavior and guide the output it generates. It plays a critical role in shaping the LLM’s responses, ensuring they are relevant and coherent.

In our project, we are working with the “refine” chain of the summarization chain. The standard prompts for a “refine” chain typically focus on summarizing the text. However, since our goal is to generate questions, we need to create custom prompts that specifically instruct the LLM to generate questions.

**Step 2.2.2: Initializing the summarization chain.**

**Step 3: Generating answers**

Now that we have our questions, it’s time to use the Large Language Model to answer them based on the information in the study material. To achieve this, we’ll employ a ‘Retrieval Question Answer Chain’.

**Step 3.1: Setting up the vector database**

In the RetrievalQA Chain, we rely on a vector database to retrieve answers from the input questions. A vector database is essentially a collection of vectors, where each vector represents specific elements or concepts. In our case, these vectors are numerical representations of text or tokens generated by the language model, also known as embeddings. These embeddings encapsulate the semantic meaning and context of the corresponding text

We have used Chroma DB for vector storage and used huggingface emdeddings for emdeddings.

**Step 3.3: Split questions into a list**

In this step, we’ll convert the generated questions from Step 2.3, which are currently stored as a string, into a list format. This conversion is necessary to ensure that the Large Language Model (LLM) can process each question individually.

To achieve this, we’ll use a simple Python function. The function will split the string of questions into a list based on a specified delimiter. Each question will become an element in the resulting list.

**Step 3.4: Initialize RetrievalQA Chain**

Now, with all the necessary components in place, we can initialize the RetrievalQA Chain for answer generation.

Good job!! We have completed backend, now it's the time to build user interface using streamlit and integrate things.
